Welcome to an introduction
to Amazon SageMaker Neo.
Hello, my name is
Michelle Metzger and I'm
a technical curriculum
developer in
the Training and Certification
organization of AWS.
In this video, I'll start
by explaining some of
the challenges that
our customers are
facing when performing
Machine Learning.
Then, introduce you to what
Amazon SageMaker Neo is,
and some of its benefits.
I'll walk through a
couple of use cases
and wrap up with
some key takeaways.
First, let's begin by covering
the concepts and challenges
of Machine Learning,
and how Amazon SageMaker Neo
addresses some of these.
Nowadays, Machine
Learning is universally
used by customers to make
informed business decisions.
Developers who want to use
Machine Learning encounter
hurdles at every step.
First, they need to choose
a framework that's best-suited
for the task at hands.
Second, they need to build
models using their
chosen framework.
Third, they need to
train a model using
sample data to make
accurate predictions
on their data sets.
Forth, they need to
integrate their model
with their application.
Finally, they need to
deploy the application,
the model, and the
framework on a platform.
Amazon SageMaker Neo
makes it easy to
build Machine Learning
models and get them
ready for training by
providing everything you
need to quickly connect
to your training data.
It also helps you to
select and optimize
the best algorithm and
framework for your application.
However, developers still face
hundreds of hurdles
when they try to
deploy a model with
optimal performance on
multiple platforms.
Let's review a few details about
the realities of
model deployment.
To begin with, developers need
to have the specific version of
the framework used for
building the models
installed on all of
their chosen platforms.
However, platform vendors
often limits support to
just one or two frameworks
because of the cost and
complexity of optimizing and
installing those frameworks.
Not to mention the size of
the frameworks themselves,
which limit the type of
platform on which it
can be installed.
To work around these limitations,
developers either restrict
the model deployment
to fewer platforms or worse,
use a framework that can
run on more platforms even
if it's not the
best-suited framework
for the task at hand.
In this situation,
developers must manually
tune the performance of their
models on each platform,
which requires rare skills and
consumes a considerable
amount of time.
As a result, developers
often have to
settle for sub-optimal
performance in their models.
This sub-optimal performance
underutilizes the
platform resources,
which increases the overall cost
of the model's deployment.
Ultimately, these
hurdles restrict
the diffusion of innovations
in Machine Learning.
Developers find themselves in
a situation requiring
their solutions
to run on multiple platforms
using multiple frameworks.
A machine learning framework
provides functions and
operations that developers use
as building blocks
for their models.
These functions and operations
differ from framework
to framework.
Also, each framework has
its own mechanism to save
the models and often has
unique file formats.
At runtime, the framework
reads the model to generate
the code and runs that code
on each unique platform.
This means, that the
model can only run on
the framework on the platform
in which it was built,
and only on the
hardware configuration
on which the framework
is supported.
Do you see the problem here?
It is painful to have
all of the platforms,
support all of the models
from all of the frameworks.
This solution is super messy,
just like you see here.
Amazon SageMaker
Neo is designed to
solve the messy problem
I just showed you.
It frees a model from
the framework in which
it was developed
and allows it to
make the best use
of the hardware on
which it was deployed.
Now, let's take a look
at how Neo works,
and review some of its benefits.
Amazon SageMaker Neo is a
new SageMaker capability
that helps developers take
models trained in any framework,
and port them on to
any platform while
increasing their performance
and reducing their footprints.
Neo provides model portability by
converting models
written in Apache MXNet,
PyTorch, TensorFlow, and XGBoost,
from a framework specific
formats into a portable code.
During conversion,
Neo automatically
optimizes the model to run
up to two times faster
without a noticeable
loss in accuracy.
After conversion, the model
no longer needs the framework,
which reduces its
runtime footprint on
the development platform
by a 100 times.
Customers can access Neo
from the SageMaker console,
and with just a few clicks,
generate a model optimized
for their specific platform.
Neo contains two components;
a compiler, and a
runtime library.
First, the Neo compiler reads
models saved in various formats.
Those formats used framework
specific functions
and operations.
Neo converts those specific
functions and operations,
into non-specific
often called Framework
Agnostic Representations.
Next, Neo will perform a
series of optimizations.
Now here's a
high-level explanation
of how Neo could work.
First, the user submits
the compilation job requests
to Amazon SageMaker,
and the job status is
changed to starting.
After a few moments,
the job status will
change to, in-progress.
This is when the process of
compiling the model
really begins,
this process can take a while.
Now, during this time,
the user has the ability to stop
the job if they need
to for any reason.
When the user stops the job,
the status will be
changed to stopping,
Amazon ECS will then begin
the process of stopping
the compilation.
Once that is completed,
the job status will then
be changed to stop.
Now in most cases,
the user is not going
to want to stop
the job right in the middle,
Amazon ECS will then be
allowed to complete
the compilation.
Once this is completed,
the job status will then
be changed to complete.
So what are the benefits
of SageMaker Neo?
Well, earlier I mentioned
the burdens that developers carry
when it comes to developing
Agnostic Machine Learning models.
The prior lack of
simple-to-use profilers
and compilers and
Machine Learning had
forced developers
into a manual trial
and error process,
that is unreliable and
quite frankly unproductive.
Enter Amazon SageMaker Neo.
Amazon sage Maker Neo provides
developers with a simple easy to
use tool to perform
the conversion of
framework specific models,
and port them to any platform.
Neo automatically
optimizes the model
to run up to two times faster,
without a noticeable
loss in accuracy.
To optimize the model,
Neo detects and exploits
patterns in the input data,
model computation, and
platform hardware.
After conversion, the model
can run without
needing any framework,
which dramatically reduces the
model's runtime footprint.
This allows the model to run
in resource constrained,
edge devices, and
performance-critical Cloud services.
Let's take a look at
a possible use case
for a SageMaker Neo.
Neo enables and accelerates
Machine Learning models both in
the Cloud and at the Edge.
For mobile phone and IoT devices,
Neo can help developers
better deploy image
classification,
object detection, and
anomaly detection
applications by relaxing
multiple constraints
on those devices.
In the Cloud, Neo
compiles models to
handle data stored in
Amazon S3 buckets,
or coming in as data streams.
Neo also enables new use cases,
such as the integration of
Machine Learning with databases.
Developers will be able to take
Machine Learning
models produced by Neo
and run them in databases in
the form of
user-defined functions.
These models will enable
complex predictive queries
that are currently
impossible or unwieldy to
express in ANSI
standard SQL language.
So what are the key
takeaways from this video?
Well, SageMaker Neo supports
the most popular deep
learning models,
that power computer vision
applications and the most
popular decision tree
models currently used in
Amazon SageMaker. Neo optimizes
the performance of AlexNet,
ResNet, VGG,
Inception, MobileNet,
SqueezeNet, and DenseNet models,
trained in MXNet, TensorFlow,
and even PyTorch.
It also optimizes the
performance of classification
and Random Cut Forest
models trained in XGBoosts.
Neo supports many different
SageMaker instance types as well.
It supports AWS DeepLens,
Raspberry Pi, Jetson
TX1 or TX2 devices,
Amazon Greengrass devices,
based on Intel processors,
as well as in video
Maxwell and Pascal GPUs.
Developers can train
models elsewhere,
and use Neo to optimize them
for SageMaker ML instances,
or Greengrass supported devices.
Neo provides model
inference modules,
which can run up to
two times faster,
while occupying a dramatically
reduced memory footprint,
versus previous solutions.
You can use the Neo
API to generate
an optimized model for
your desired platform,
and you can even deploy and run
that optimized model on
your desired platforms
at no additional charge.
I hope you learn just
a little something
about Amazon SageMaker Neo,
and we'll continue to
explore other AWS videos.
I'm Michelle Metzger with AWS
Training and Certification.
Thank you for watching.